---
id: 364
title: 'The software development community'
pubDate: '2014-04-28T22:21:32+01:00'
author: 'Steve Fenton'
layout: post
guid: 'https://www.stevefenton.co.uk/?p=364'
permalink: /2014/04/the-software-development-community/
interface_sidebarlayout:
    - default
categories:
    - Programming
---

If you are thinking of getting into software development, you may get a little put off by the perennial stories that come back from the conferences and from big headline resignations over equality issues.

I just wanted to say, it isn’t all like that.

I would be absolutely astonished if anything like this happened anywhere I worked, or have worked. It isn’t normal behaviour and I’m certain that the vast majority of people are welcoming and inclusive. I’m talking about 99.999% of people here.

The stories you hear about really are generated by a tiny percentage of small minded idiots. If you are one of them, please know that your behaviour is not acceptable and that you are not welcome to infect our community with your distasteful behaviour.

So if you are thinking about getting into software development, please don’t be put off – especially by these stories. We aren’t talking about these incidents because they are so common – they aren’t. We are talking about them to make it absolutely clear that the software development community will not tolerate them.

We should all be able to attend conferences, make dongle jokes and have a good time reinforcing the learning culture – but there is a line that should not be crossed. Stay classy, have fun and be a programmer.